= ALERT!!!

This version of stateflow has not been tested enough for use by anyone but the hacker! Unless you really want the feature and are willing to risk everything to get it!

Having said that, it should be completely backward compatible, unless you were in the habit of defining whole new stateflows in subclasses.
The tests pass and new tests have been added.

Problems might arise from the fact that the 'transitions :from => any' is now handled by handling a special case transition.from == [], instead of requesting all states from the object. This solved the problems that events kept a reference to the old machine and the fact that new states might be added now.

This version has been altered to allow a subclass to add to a stateflow, by:

- adding new events, 
- adding new transitions to existing events
- adding new states
- adding/replacing the enter and exit methods of existing states.

Just add another 'stateflow do' block in the subclass and continue as normal. Keeping in mind what state was in the superclass and how you might really screw things up.

Hampei.


= Stateflow

== TODO

* More Persistence layers
* More Tests
* More features
* Speeed!

This is the basics of the gem. Please check out the examples directory or tests for usage until this README gets fleshed out. Feel free to fork and modify as you please.

== INSTALL

  gem install stateflow

== Usage

As you can see below, Stateflow's API is very similar to AASM, but allows for a more dynamic state transition flow. Stateflow supports persistence/storage with Mongoid, MongoMapper, and ActiveRecord. Request any others or push them to me.

Stateflow defaults to ActiveRecord but you can set the persistence layer with:

  Stateflow.persistence = :mongo_mapper
OR
  Stateflow.persistence = :active_record
OR
  Stateflow.persistence = :mongoid

Stateflow allows dynamic :to transitions with :decide. The result :decide returns needs to be one of the states listed in the :to array, otherwise it wont allow the transition. Please view the advanced example below for usage.

You can set the default column with the state_column function in the stateflow block. The default state column is "state".

  state_column :state

== Basic Example

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'stateflow'

  # No persistence
  Stateflow.persistence :none

  class Robot
    include Stateflow

    stateflow do
      initial :green

      state :green, :yellow, :red

      event :change_color do
        transitions :from => :green, :to => :yellow
        transitions :from => :yellow, :to => :red
        transitions :from => :red, :to => :green
      end
    end
  end

== Advanced Example

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'stateflow'

  # No persistence
  Stateflow.persistence :none

  class Test
    include Stateflow

    stateflow do

      initial :love

      state :love do
        enter lambda { |t| p "Entering love" }
        exit :exit_love
      end

      state :hate do
        enter lambda { |t| p "Entering hate" }
        exit lambda { |t| p "Exiting hate" }
      end

      state :mixed do
        enter lambda { |t| p "Entering mixed" }
        exit lambda { |t| p "Exiting mixed" }
      end

      event :b do
        transitions :from => :love, :to => :hate, :if => :no_ice_cream
        transitions :from => :hate, :to => :love
      end

      event :a do
        transitions :from => :love, :to => [:hate, :mixed], :decide => :likes_ice_cream?
        transitions :from => [:hate, :mixed], :to => :love
      end
    end

    def likes_ice_cream?
      rand(10) > 5 ? :mixed : :hate
    end

    def exit_love
      p "Exiting love"
    end

    def no_ice_cream
      rand(4) > 2 ? true : false
    end
  end

== Bang event vs non-bang event

Bang events will save the model after call, where the non bang event will just update the state and call the transitions. (ie. model.change! vs model.change)

== Extra's

* When transitioning states, the previous state from which you have transitioned to can be accessed via `_previous_state`. See tests for more information.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with Rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Ryan Oberholzer. See LICENSE for details.
